# IoT Project
Smart home monitoring IoT system is growing rapidly. With new research continuously revealing new and exciting appliances to add to our home monitoring systems, it is important for researchers to come up with new inventions to improve our quality of living by implementing smart monitoring systems in our urban living environment.
Fire hazards are among the most dangerous and unpredictable happenings in urban living. In the same time, there are many technologies that can be used to resolve these problems and more over support better living [1]. As a part of IoT, temperature monitoring system holds the promise of many new applications in the area of monitoring and control. Wireless sensor networks are an emerging technology consisting of small, low power, and low-cost devices that integrate limited computation, sensing and remote communication capabilities. This technology has enormous impact on fire emergency. The temperature sensor on TM4C123G Microcontroller Launchpad can be used to detect a dramatic change o-in temperature in its vicinity and report it to the user. But the on board temperature is not very reliable due to its poor accuracy. The TMP36 Temperature sensor is used in this project to detect the temperature and report to user on two platforms, LCD and PuTTY terminal on PC. In addition to that, to promote power saving living, a light sensor is used to detect the room’s brightness and if the room is bright, turn on the LCD.
In recent times, development in computing and consumer electronics technologies have triggered Internet of Things (IOT) paradigm. IOT is described as enabler that links seamless objects surrounding the environment and performs some sort of message exchange among them. The IOT is a collection of objects that work jointly in order to serve consumer tasks in a federated manner [1]. It binds computational power to deliver data about the surrounding environments [2] [4]. These devices can be in form of bespoke sensors, appliances, embedded systems, and data analysis microchips.
